nvim/README.md, before:

# neovim

## Plugins

- Plugin manager
  - [wbthomason/packer.nvim](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim)
  - [folke/lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)
- Syntax parser and highlighting:
  - [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter)
  - [p00f/nvim-ts-rainbow](https://github.com/p00f/nvim-ts-rainbow)
  - undone
    [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context)

### LSP

- Package manager for lsp servers, linters and formatters:
  [williamboman/mason.nvim](https://github.com/williamboman/mason.nvim)
- LSP
  - [neovim/nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig)
  - [jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim](https://github.com/jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim)
  - [glepnir/lspsaga.nvim](https://github.com/glepnir/lspsaga.nvim)
- Formatters
  - [MunifTanjim/prettier.nvim](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/prettier.nvim)
- Auto completions
  - [hrsh7th/nvim-cmp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp/)
  - [onsails/lspkind.nvim](https://github.com/onsails/lspkind.nvim): vscode-like
    pictograms for neovim lsp completion items
  - [hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp-signature-help](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp-signature-help)

### Editor

- Enhencements
  - [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-textobjects](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-textobjects)
  - [numToStr/Comment.nvim](https://github.com/numToStr/Comment.nvim)
  - [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context)
  - [kylechui/nvim-surround](https://github.com/kylechui/nvim-surround)
  - [cappyzawa/trim.nvim](https://github.com/cappyzawa/trim.nvim)
  - [nvimdev/guard.nvim](https://github.com/nvimdev/guard.nvim)
- [nvim-orgmode/orgmode](https://github.com/nvim-orgmode/orgmode)
- [lervag/vimtex](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex): VimTeX: A modern Vim and
  neovim filetype plugin for LaTeX files.
- [ryleelyman/latex.nvim](https://github.com/ryleelyman/latex.nvim): No
  description, website, or topics provided.
- [iurimateus/luasnip-latex-snippets.nvim](https://github.com/iurimateus/luasnip-latex-snippets.nvim):
  A port of Gilles Castel's UltiSnip snippets for LuaSnip.
- [jbyuki/nabla.nvim](https://github.com/jbyuki/nabla.nvim): take your
  scientific notes ✏️ in Neovim
- [stevearc/oil.nvim](https://github.com/stevearc/oil.nvim): Neovim file explorer: edit your filesystem like a buffer
- [m4xshen/hardtime.nvim](https://github.com/m4xshen/hardtime.nvim): Establish good command workflow and quit bad habit

### UI

<!-- - [dstein64/nvim-scrollview](https://github.com/dstein64/nvim-scrollview) -->

- [projekt0n/github-nvim-theme](https://github.com/projekt0n/github-nvim-theme)
- [folke/tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim)
- status bar:
  [nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim)
- utils
  - [nvim-lua/plenary.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/plenary.nvim)
- greeter
  - [goolord/alpha-nvim](https://github.com/goolord/alpha-nvim)
  - [LazyVim/LazyVim](https://github.com/LazyVim/LazyVim)
- [catppuccin/nvim](https://github.com/catppuccin/nvim): 🍨 Soothing pastel
  theme for (Neo)vim

### Wait to adapt

- [ruifm/gitlinker.nvim](https://github.com/ruifm/gitlinker.nvim)
- [gelguy/wilder.nvim](https://github.com/gelguy/wilder.nvim)
- [nvimdev/lspsaga.nvim](https://github.com/nvimdev/lspsaga.nvim): improve
  neovim lsp experience

## Inspired by

- [glepnir/dashboard-nvim](https://github.com/glepnir/dashboard-nvim)
- [shanzi](https://gist.github.com/shanzi/4604361)
- [Rust and Neovim - A Thorough Guide and Walkthrough](https://rsdlt.github.io/posts/rust-nvim-ide-guide-walkthrough-development-debug/)
- [nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim)
- [craftzdog/dotfiles-public](https://github.com/craftzdog/dotfiles-public)
- [ayamir/nvimdots](https://github.com/ayamir/nvimdots)
- [junnplus/dotfiles](https://github.com/junnplus/dotfiles/tree/master/nvim)
- [mvandermeulen/nvim](https://github.com/mvandermeulen/nvim): Neovim configured
  for IDE like usage with Python, Lua, Swift and Rust
- https://kennethnym.com/blog/my-neovim-setup/

## Learn vim / neovim / lua

- [glepnir/nvim-lua-guide-zh](https://github.com/glepnir/nvim-lua-guide-zh)
- [nshen/learn-neovim-lua](https://github.com/nshen/learn-neovim-lua)
- [Learn X in Y minutes, Where X=Lua](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/lua/)
- [iggredible/Learn-Vim](https://github.com/iggredible/Learn-Vim): Learning Vim
  and Vimscript doesn't have to be hard. This is the guide that you're looking
  for 📖
- [wsdjeg/Learn-Vim_zh_cn](https://github.com/wsdjeg/Learn-Vim_zh_cn):
  Learn-Vim(the Smart Way) 中文翻译
- [mhinz/vim-galore](https://github.com/mhinz/vim-galore): 🎓 All things Vim!
- [wsdjeg/vim-galore-zh_cn](https://github.com/wsdjeg/vim-galore-zh_cn): Vim 从
  入门到精通
- [FledgeXu/NeovimZero2Hero](https://github.com/FledgeXu/NeovimZero2Hero)
- [LunarVim/Neovim-from-scratch](https://github.com/LunarVim/Neovim-from-scratch):
  📚 A Neovim config designed from scratch to be understandable
  <https://www.chrisatmachine.com/>

## Awesome

- [rockerBOO/awesome-neovim](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim)
- [LunarVim/LunarVim](https://github.com/LunarVim/LunarVim)
- [AstroNvim/AstroNvim](https://github.com/AstroNvim/AstroNvim)
- [NeoVim 插件推荐](https://innei.in/posts/Z-Turn/nvim-plugin-recommend)

- [folke/flash.nvim](https://github.com/folke/flash.nvim): Navigate your code
  with search labels, enhanced character motions and Treesitter integration
- [joelazar/nvim-config](https://github.com/joelazar/nvim-config): My neovim
  config

https://m4xshen.dev/posts/build-your-modern-neovim-config-in-lua

Commit message:

Push wiki update for nvim and vscode settings

nvim/README.md, after:

# neovim

## Plugins

- Plugin manager
  - [wbthomason/packer.nvim](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim)
  - [folke/lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)
- Syntax parser and highlighting:
  - [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter)
  - [p00f/nvim-ts-rainbow](https://github.com/p00f/nvim-ts-rainbow)
  - undone
    [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context)

### LSP

- Package manager for lsp servers, linters and formatters:
  [williamboman/mason.nvim](https://github.com/williamboman/mason.nvim)
- LSP
  - [neovim/nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig)
  - [jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim](https://github.com/jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim)
  - [glepnir/lspsaga.nvim](https://github.com/glepnir/lspsaga.nvim)
- Formatters
  - [MunifTanjim/prettier.nvim](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/prettier.nvim)
- Auto completions
  - [hrsh7th/nvim-cmp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp/)
  - [onsails/lspkind.nvim](https://github.com/onsails/lspkind.nvim): vscode-like
    pictograms for neovim lsp completion items
  - [hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp-signature-help](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp-signature-help)

### Editor

- Enhencements
  - [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-textobjects](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-textobjects)
  - [numToStr/Comment.nvim](https://github.com/numToStr/Comment.nvim)
  - [nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-context)
  - [kylechui/nvim-surround](https://github.com/kylechui/nvim-surround)
  - [cappyzawa/trim.nvim](https://github.com/cappyzawa/trim.nvim)
  - [nvimdev/guard.nvim](https://github.com/nvimdev/guard.nvim)
- [nvim-orgmode/orgmode](https://github.com/nvim-orgmode/orgmode)
- [lervag/vimtex](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex): VimTeX: A modern Vim and
  neovim filetype plugin for LaTeX files.
- [ryleelyman/latex.nvim](https://github.com/ryleelyman/latex.nvim): No
  description, website, or topics provided.
- [iurimateus/luasnip-latex-snippets.nvim](https://github.com/iurimateus/luasnip-latex-snippets.nvim):
  A port of Gilles Castel's UltiSnip snippets for LuaSnip.
- [jbyuki/nabla.nvim](https://github.com/jbyuki/nabla.nvim): take your
  scientific notes ✏️ in Neovim
- [stevearc/oil.nvim](https://github.com/stevearc/oil.nvim): Neovim file explorer: edit your filesystem like a buffer
- [m4xshen/hardtime.nvim](https://github.com/m4xshen/hardtime.nvim): Establish good command workflow and quit bad habit

### UI

<!-- - [dstein64/nvim-scrollview](https://github.com/dstein64/nvim-scrollview) -->

- [projekt0n/github-nvim-theme](https://github.com/projekt0n/github-nvim-theme)
- [folke/tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim)
- status bar:
  [nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim)
- utils
  - [nvim-lua/plenary.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/plenary.nvim)
- greeter
  - [goolord/alpha-nvim](https://github.com/goolord/alpha-nvim)
  - [LazyVim/LazyVim](https://github.com/LazyVim/LazyVim)
- [catppuccin/nvim](https://github.com/catppuccin/nvim): 🍨 Soothing pastel
  theme for (Neo)vim

### Wait to adapt

- [ruifm/gitlinker.nvim](https://github.com/ruifm/gitlinker.nvim)
- [gelguy/wilder.nvim](https://github.com/gelguy/wilder.nvim)
- [nvimdev/lspsaga.nvim](https://github.com/nvimdev/lspsaga.nvim): improve
  neovim lsp experience

## Inspired by

- [glepnir/dashboard-nvim](https://github.com/glepnir/dashboard-nvim)
- [shanzi](https://gist.github.com/shanzi/4604361)
- [Rust and Neovim - A Thorough Guide and Walkthrough](https://rsdlt.github.io/posts/rust-nvim-ide-guide-walkthrough-development-debug/)
- [nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim)
- [craftzdog/dotfiles-public](https://github.com/craftzdog/dotfiles-public)
- [ayamir/nvimdots](https://github.com/ayamir/nvimdots)
- [junnplus/dotfiles](https://github.com/junnplus/dotfiles/tree/master/nvim)
- [mvandermeulen/nvim](https://github.com/mvandermeulen/nvim): Neovim configured
  for IDE like usage with Python, Lua, Swift and Rust
- https://kennethnym.com/blog/my-neovim-setup/

## Learn vim / neovim / lua

- [glepnir/nvim-lua-guide-zh](https://github.com/glepnir/nvim-lua-guide-zh)
- [nshen/learn-neovim-lua](https://github.com/nshen/learn-neovim-lua)
- [Learn X in Y minutes, Where X=Lua](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/lua/)
- [iggredible/Learn-Vim](https://github.com/iggredible/Learn-Vim): Learning Vim
  and Vimscript doesn't have to be hard. This is the guide that you're looking
  for 📖
- [wsdjeg/Learn-Vim_zh_cn](https://github.com/wsdjeg/Learn-Vim_zh_cn):
  Learn-Vim(the Smart Way) 中文翻译
- [mhinz/vim-galore](https://github.com/mhinz/vim-galore): 🎓 All things Vim!
- [wsdjeg/vim-galore-zh_cn](https://github.com/wsdjeg/vim-galore-zh_cn): Vim 从
  入门到精通
- [FledgeXu/NeovimZero2Hero](https://github.com/FledgeXu/NeovimZero2Hero)
- [LunarVim/Neovim-from-scratch](https://github.com/LunarVim/Neovim-from-scratch):
  📚 A Neovim config designed from scratch to be understandable
  <https://www.chrisatmachine.com/>
- [Build your modern Neovim config in Lua | Max Shen Dev](https://m4xshen.dev/posts/build-your-modern-neovim-config-in-lua): Learn how to build a modern Neovim configuration in Lua with options, mappings, autocmds, and plugins. Follow a structured approach to enhance your Neovim experience.

## Awesome

- [rockerBOO/awesome-neovim](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim)
- [LunarVim/LunarVim](https://github.com/LunarVim/LunarVim)
- [AstroNvim/AstroNvim](https://github.com/AstroNvim/AstroNvim)
- [NeoVim 插件推荐](https://innei.in/posts/Z-Turn/nvim-plugin-recommend)

- [folke/flash.nvim](https://github.com/folke/flash.nvim): Navigate your code
  with search labels, enhanced character motions and Treesitter integration
- [joelazar/nvim-config](https://github.com/joelazar/nvim-config): My neovim
  config
- [echasnovski/mini.nvim](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim): Library of 40+ independent Lua modules improving overall Neovim (version 0.8 and higher) experience with minimal effort
